---                                                                                                                                                                                      
layout: post                                                                                                                                                                             
categories: news                                                                                                                                                                 
date:  2018-08-27 00:00:01 +0000                                                                                                                                                        
title: "New Publication in Adv. Mater."

photo: "/images/wb-adv-matr.png"
---            


A surge in interest of oxide‐based materials is testimony for their potential utility in a wide array of device applications and offers a fascinating landscape for tuning the functional properties through a variety of physical and chemical parameters. In particular, selective electronic/defect doping has been demonstrated to be vital in tailoring novel functionalities, not existing in the bulk host oxides. Here, an extraordinary interstitial doping effect is demonstrated centered around a light element, boron (B). The host matrix is a novel composite system, made from discrete bulk LaAlO3:LaBO3 compounds. The findings show a spontaneous ordering of the interstitial B cations within the host LaAlO3 lattices, and subsequent spin‐polarized charge injection into the neighboring cations. This leads to a series of remarkable cation‐dominated electrical switching and high‐temperature ferromagnetism. Hence, the induced interstitial doping serves to transform a nonmagnetic insulating bulk oxide into a ferromagnetic ionic–electronic conductor. This unique interstitial B doping effect upon its control is proposed to be as a general route for extracting/modifying multifunctional properties in bulk oxides utilized in energy and spin‐based applications. 


[Full Article](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/adma.201802025)
