---                                                                                                                                                                                      
layout: post                                                                                                                                                                             
categories: news                                                                                                                                                                 
date:  2019-02-26 00:00:01 +0000                                                                                                                                                        
title: "New Publication in Phys. Rev. B on Electronic Structure of Niobium 
Suboxides"

photo: "/images/Nb22O54.png"
---            

The crystal structures of transition metal oxides often feature octhedral motifs — one transition metal atom surrounded by six oxygens. Phases of niobium oxides take interesting crystal structures in which the octahedra connect via their corners to form larger block-like units, and those, in turn, stack up and next to each other to form the crystal. Through electronic structure calculations, we show that these block units affect the behaviour of electrons within the material in a peculiar way. Localised and delocalised electronic states coexist within the blocks, but are spatially separated. The delocalised states are present at the boundaries between the block superunits, while localised electrons are found in the interior. Using these principles, we can explain some interesting results from previous experimental work. Slightly reduced block-type niobium oxides are magnetic - and the magnetism arises from localised electrons in the block interior. Similarly, some reduced niobium oxides feature activated electron conductivity, while others are metallic - this is related to the fact that each block can only hold one localised electron. Overall, our work demonstrates elegantly the effect of the nanometre-sized superunits on the electronic behaviour of the materials.

[Full Article](https://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.99.075151)
